[IMP] Time Off:  Allocations (#18598)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/time_off/allocations.rst

===========

Allocations are amounts of time off given to employees, either granted immediately or earned as the
employee works, through an :doc:`accrual plan <accrual_plans>`.

> Once :doc:`time off types <../time_off/time_off_types>` and :doc:`accrual plans
> <../time_off/accrual_plans>` have been configured, the next step is to *allocate*, or give, time off

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once :doc:`time off types <../time_off/time_off_types>` and accrual plans have been configured, the next step is to *allocate*, or give, time off
```

Reviewer: The accrual plans doc has already been linked above so I'd probably remove this reference.

=================

To create a new allocation, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app --> Management -->

> Allocations`, and the *Allocations* dashboard loads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Allocations`. This loads the *Allocations* dashboard.
```

> The dashboard displays a Kanban view of all allocations awaiting a second approval for the user's

Reviewer: Just to confirm: when I open this dashboard I see that the 'First Approval' filter is applied by default... is this correct? Does this mean that those users are waiting for a first approval? Or a second?

team.

> Click :guilabel:`New` to allocate time off, and a blank :guilabel:`Allocations` form appears. Enter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click :guilabel:`New` to allocate time off. This opens a blank :guilabel:`Allocations` form. Enter
```

  the :guilabel:`Employee Tag` field. When a tag is selected, *all* employees with that tag receive
  the allocation.

> Fill out the remainder of the :ref:`New Group Allocation form <time_off/allocation-form>`, then

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fill out the remainder of the form, then
```

Reviewer: I'd suggest removing this link since we're already talking about filling out the form. The same link has also already been mentioned earlier in this section.

click :guilabel:`Allocate Time Off` when done. The *Generated Allocations* dashboard loads,
displaying all the employees granted an allocation on the form.

.. image:: allocations/group-granted.png
   :alt: The Generated Allocations dashboard showing the accountants granted time off.

.. example::

>    A company wants to send their accounting department for two days of training. The training is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   A company wants to give their accounting department two days of training. The training is
```

>    happening over one week, and the employees can decide which days they want to attend. Since it is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   happening over one week. Since it is
```

Reviewer: This is already mentioned in the next sentence so I'd delete this for concision.

>    a work-related event, the company wants to grant time off to the accountants, and let them decide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   a work-related event, the company wants to grant time off to the accountants and let them decide
```

   which training days they will attend.

   The time off officer creates multiple allocations, and configures the :ref:`New Group Allocation
   form <time_off/allocation-form>` as follows:

   The :guilabel:`Grant` field is set to :guilabel:`By Department`, and the :guilabel:`Department`
   field is set to :guilabel:`Accounting`.

   The :guilabel:`Time Off Type` is set to :guilabel:`Training Time Off`, with the

>    :guilabel:`Allocation Type` set to :guilabel:`Regular Allocaiton`, since the time off is given up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :guilabel:`Allocation Type` set to :guilabel:`Regular Allocation`, since the time off is given up
```

>    front, and is not *earned* through an :doc:`accrual plan <accrual_plans>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   front, and is not *earned* through an accrual plan.
```

Reviewer: Already linked previously in the doc.

   The :guilabel:`Validity Period` is set to :guilabel:`June 22` :icon:`oi-arrow-right`
   :guilabel:`June 30`, since the training event is happening that week, and the employees can pick
   any two days they want to attend during that time.

   The :guilabel:`Allocation` is set to :guilabel:`2.00 Days`, and `Annual accounting training.`

>    appears in the details at the bottom, to provide information on why the time off is being

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   appears in the details at the bottom to provide information on why the time off is being
```

If an employee has used all their time off, or will run out of time off, they can request an
allocation for additional time. Allocations can be requested in one of two ways, either from the
main :ref:`Time Off dashboard <time_off/dashboard-allocation>` or the :ref:`My Allocations dashboard
<time_off/my-allocations>`.

.. note::
   Both options open a new *Allocation Request* form, but when requested from the main
   **Time Off** *Dashboard*, the form appears in a pop-up window, and the *Validity Period*
   field does **not** appear.

   When requested from the *My Allocations* dashboard, the screen navigates to a new allocation

>    request page, instead of presenting a pop-up window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   request page instead of presenting a pop-up window.
```

.. _time_off/dashboard-allocation:

> Time off dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Time Off dashboard
```

-------------------

To request an allocation from the **Time Off** dashboard, open the **Time Off** app, or navigate to

> :menuselection:`Time Off app --> My Time --> Dashbaord`. On the *Dashboard*, click

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:menuselection:`Time Off app --> My Time --> Dashboard`. On the *Dashboard*, click
```

:guilabel:`NEW ALLOCATION REQUEST` beneath :guilabel:`Pending Requests`, and a *New Allocation*
pop-up window loads.

Configure the following fields on the form:

> - :guilabel:`Time Off Type`: Using the drop-down menu, select the type of time off being requested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Time Off Type`: Select the type of time off being requested using the drop-down menu.
```

- :guilabel:`Ask for`: Enter the amount of time being requested, either in :guilabel:`Days` or
  :guilabel:`Hours`. The unit of time is determined by the selected :guilabel:`Time Off Type`.
- :guilabel:`Add a reason...`: Enter a brief description why the time off is being requested.

.. image:: allocations/single-request.png
   :alt: An individual request for more vacation time, requested form the Time Off dashboard.

.. _time_off/my-allocations:

> My allocations dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
My Allocations dashboard
```

------------------------

To request an allocation from the *My Allocations* dashboard, navigate to :menuselection:`Tme Off
app --> My Time --> My Allocations`. Click the :guilabel:`New` button on the *My Allocations*
dashboard, and an *Allocation Request* form loads.

Enter the following information on the *Allocation Request* form:

> - :guilabel:`Name`: The name for the allocation request is `Allocation Request` by default. As

Reviewer: I don't see the default name as `Allocation Request`... When I open a new form, the name just shows up as whatever 'Time Off Type' is selected plus the number of allocation days chosen in parentheses... Am I doing this correctly?

Author: Ahh, I see - I deleted the time off type to see what it says, and that makes the "Allocation Request appear as the name. I will update this!

  selections are made, the name of the request is updated to reflect the request. The name

>   **cannot** be modified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **cannot** be manually modified.
```

- :guilabel:`Time Off Type`: Using the drop-down menu, select the type of time off being requested
  for the allocation. After a selection is made, the :guilabel:`Name` updates with the time off
  type.
- :guilabel:`Validity Period`: By default, the current date populates the first field and the
  second field displays :guilabel:`No Limit`. To change the time frame for the request, click on the

>   date, and a calendar popover appears. Click on the desired date to select it. If there is an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  date, and select the desired date on the calendar popover. If there is an
```

  expiration date for the request, select the end date in the second field.
- :guilabel:`Allocation`: Enter the amount of time being requested in this field. The format is
  presented in either :guilabel:`Days` or :guilabel:`Hours`, depending on how the :guilabel:`Time
  Off Type` is configured. Once this field is populated, the name of the allocation request is
  updated to include the amount of time being requested.
- :guilabel:`Add a reason...`: Enter a description for the allocation request in this field. This
  should include any details that approvers may need to approve the request.

The information is automatically saved as it is entered. To view the request, click the

> :guilabel:`My Allocations` breadcrumb, or navigat to :menuselection:`Tme Off app --> My Time --> My

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`My Allocations` breadcrumb, or navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app --> My Time --> My
```
